A tribute to two women who enabled my career (#7)
Corniel/corniel.github.io: hello-world/2025_03_08_international_womens_day.md

# A tribute to two women who enabled my career

## My great-grandmother
My great-grandmother (the mother of the mother of my mother) is without any
doubt someone who inspired my career, even if she did not live to see the result.

Born in april 1895, she was the only relative I ever knew who was born in the

> 19th century. Se was the youngest of thirteen children wo became a kindergarden

Reviewer: ```suggestion
19th century. She was the youngest of thirteen children who became a kindergarden
```

> 19th century. Se was the youngest of thirteen children wo became a kindergarden

Reviewer 2: S**h**e was the youngest of thirteen children who became a kindergar**t**en
teacher until she married (she was fired as result, which was ~common~ law back
in the day in the Netherlands, and not only there).

"Common law" is law system based on previous court rulings, like used in England. The Netherlands has a system based on civil law. I think you meant to say that firing a female teacher was common after she got married. In that time there was a law that forbid married women younger than 45 to work for the goverment. But IANAL and there are more details than I, and you I guess, care to explain in this story.

Author: That married women where not allowed to work for the government is in this story obviously a way to remind the reader how much have changed the last 100 years for women, and that we in the western world by now means can claim that we are far ahead of countries where women still face a lot of patriarchal backslash.

That this practice was only abandoned  in 1955 about 35 years after my great-grandmother married is too much detail here I guess.

teacher until she married (she was fired as result, which was common law back
in the day in the Netherlands, and not only there). 

> Her housband died when she was just 32 years old, mother of 3 daughters, in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Her husband died when she was just 32 years old, mother of 3 daughters, in the
```

> age of 5 (my greandmother), 3, and 1 year old. She rebranded the store she and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
age of 5 (my grandmother), 3, and 1 year old. She rebranded the store she and
```

> age of 5 (my greandmother), 3, and 1 year old. She rebranded the store she and

Reviewer 2: gr/~e~/andmother

> her husband husband owned, from furnature to yarn (as no men in these days would

Reviewer 2: ~husband~
furniture

> her husband husband owned, from furnature to yarn (as no men in these days would
> buy furnature from a woman, or take her advise on the subject).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
her husband owned, from furniture to yarn (as no men in these days would
buy furniture from a woman, or take her advice on the subject).
```

> buy furnature from a woman, or take her advise on the subject).

Reviewer 2: advi**c**e

She sent all her daughters to the [MULO](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meer_Uitgebreid_Lager_Onderwijs),

> a form of extended primary education which was definitaly frowned up by some,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a form of extended primary education, which was definitely frowned upon by some,
```

> a form of extended primary education which was definitaly frowned up by some,

Reviewer 2: definit**e**ly frowned up**on**

as it was not considered useful for women to get educated beyond the bare

> minimum in the 30's of the previous centery. She did it anyway because she

Reviewer: ```suggestion
minimum in the 30's of the previous century. She did it anyway because she
```

> minimum in the 30's of the previous centery. She did it anyway because she

Reviewer 2: cent**u**ry

strongly believed that education was the only way to become financially
independent.

That mindset shaped both my grandmother and mother and where key to how also

> I was raised, and now raise my daughter.  The fact that she lived another

Reviewer 2: she => my grandmother.
But that's just my preference, after reading entire sentence it becomes clear that "she" is not about your daughter ;).

sixty years as a widow, was around when Women's suffrage was granted in the

> Netherlands in 1917, survived two world wars, also trigged my intereset in

Reviewer 2: trigg**er**ed

> That mindset shaped both my grandmother and mother and where key to how also
> I was raised, and now raise my daughter.  The fact that she lived another
> sixty years as a widow, was around when Women's suffrage was granted in the
> Netherlands in 1917, survived two world wars, also trigged my intereset in
> history. She died when I was just 8 years old, but I already understood
> who special she was

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That mindset shaped both my grandmother and mother and were also key to how
I was raised, and now raise my daughter. The fact that she lived another
sixty years as a widow, was around when Women's suffrage was granted in the
Netherlands in 1917 and survived two world wars, also trigged my interest in
history. She died when I was just 8 years old, but I already understood
how special she was.
```

> who special she was

Reviewer 2: who => how special she was.

## Ellen Post

> The key figure in my education, the one who safed my from failing at school is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The key figure in my education, the one who saved me from failing at school is
```

> The key figure in my education, the one who safed my from failing at school is

Reviewer 2: sa**v**ed m**e** from failing at school **,** is

my remedial teacher Ellen Post. I'm still in her debt 30 years later.

> I was not an easy going kid. I was (still am) hot-tempred, easly distracted,

Reviewer 2: temp**e**red, eas**i**ly

> and hyperly active. As a result, my schoolresults where not that great,

Reviewer 2: hyper~ly~

> although had (fairly) good results for arithmetics and maths. My behavior was

Reviewer 2: although **I** had

> really problematic, ot the extend that I even was expelled temporary from

Reviewer 2: ot => to
temporarily expelled

> I was not an easy going kid. I was (still am) hot-tempred, easly distracted,
> and hyperly active. As a result, my schoolresults where not that great,
> although had (fairly) good results for arithmetics and maths. My behavior was
> really problematic, ot the extend that I even was expelled temporary from
> school once.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I was not an easy going kid. I was (still am) hot-tempered, easily distracted,
and hyper-active. As a result, my schoolresults were not that great,
although I had (fairly) good results for arithmetics and maths. My behavior was
really problematic, to the extend that I was even expelled temporary from
school once.
```

But Ellen believed in me. She single handedly convinced her colleagues to not

> expel me permently, but to pass to the forth grate, and to allow me to follow

Reviewer 2: perm**an**ently
fo**u**rth gra**d**e

> expel me permently, but to pass to the forth grate, and to allow me to follow
> extra subjects, required to go to university. In the process she restored 
> - at least a bit - of my self-esteem, and helped me working on my behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
expel me permanently, but to pass to the fourth grade, and allow me to follow
extra subjects, required to go to university. In the process she restored 
- at least a bit - of my self-esteem, and helped me work on my behavior.
```

> If it was for her, I would never have been able to go to university, a life

Reviewer 2: was**n't**

> If it was for her, I would never have been able to go to university, a life
> changing event which without I most likely never would have become a software
> engineer. Thank you again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If it wasn't for her, I would never have been able to go to university, a life
changing event, which without I most likely never would have become a software
engineer. Thank you again.
```

# A tribute to two women who enabled my career

## My great-grandmother
My great-grandmother (the mother of the mother of my mother) is without any
doubt someone who inspired my career, even if she did not live to see the result.

Born in april 1895, she was the only relative I ever knew who was born in the
19th century. She was the youngest of thirteen children who became a kindergarden
teacher until she married (she was fired as result, which was common law back
in the day in the Netherlands, and not only there). 

Her husband died when she was just 32 years old, mother of 3 daughters, in the
age of 5 (my grandmother), 3, and 1 year old. She rebranded the store she and
her husband owned, from furniture to yarn (as no men in these days would
buy furniture from a woman, or take her advice on the subject).

She sent all her daughters to the [MULO](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meer_Uitgebreid_Lager_Onderwijs)

> (a form of extended primary education). This was definitively frowned up by some,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(a form of extended primary education). This was definitely frowned up by some,
```

as it was not considered useful for women to get educated beyond the bare
minimum in the 30's of the previous centery. She did it anyway because she
strongly believed that education was the only way to become financially

> independent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
She sent all her daughters to the [MULO](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meer_Uitgebreid_Lager_Onderwijs)
(a form of extended primary education). This was definitely frowned upon by some,
as it was not considered useful for women to get educated beyond the bare
minimum in the 30's of the previous century. She did it anyway because she
strongly believed that education was the only way to become financially
independent.
```

That mindset shaped both my grandmother and mother and were also key to how
I was raised, and now raise my daughter. The fact that she lived another
sixty years as a widow, was around when Women's suffrage was granted in the
Netherlands in 1917 and survived two world wars, also trigged my interest in
history. She died when I was just 8 years old, but I already understood
how special she was.

## Ellen Post
The key figure in my education, the one who saved me from failing at school is
my remedial teacher Ellen Post. I'm still in her debt 30 years later.

> I was not an easy going kid. I was (still am) hot-tempred, easly distracted,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I was not an easy going kid. I was (still am) hot-tempered, easily distracted,
```

> and hyperly active. As a result, my schoolresults where not that great,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and hyperly active. As a result, my schoolresults were not that great,
```

although I had (fairly) good results for arithmetics and maths. My behavior was
really problematic at times, to the extend that I even was expelled temporary
from school once.

> But Ellen believed in me. When some colleagues proposed to expel me permently,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But Ellen believed in me. When some colleagues proposed to expel me permanently,
```

> she used her influence to to convince them not only to let me stay, but also

Reviewer: ```suggestion
she used her influence to convince them not only to let me stay, but also
```

> to let me pass the forth grade. On top of that she aranged that I could follow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to let me pass the fourth grade. On top of that she arranged that I could follow
```

> an extra subject, required to go to university. Without here, that would have
> not happend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
an extra subject, required to go to university. Without her, that would not
have happened.
```

> She helped me believing in myself, something I did not do at the time. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
She helped me believe in myself, something I did not do at the time. 
```

 
If it wasn't for her, I would never have been able to go to university, a life
changing event, which without I most likely never would have become a software
engineer. Thank you again.

I think the world is a better place due to the existance of these extraordinary

> women, who I was lukcy to know.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I think the world is a better place due to the existence of these extraordinary
women, who I was lucky to know.
```
